>> Jason Lengstorf: We wanna get
the ability to share code snippets,
because it's docs theme, right?
And so a very common use case for
docs name is gonna be to share code.
So, the next thing we're gonna do
is set up a syntax highlighting.
And to do that, we're going to
install a couple little helpers.
So let's do yarn workspace,
gatsby-theme-docks and
we're going to add
the prism-react-renderer.
And then we're going to use mdx-utils,
which will help us handle some busy
work of making the react
renderer work properly.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Once those
are installed, we can go in to our docs
package, and we'll create a new file
in components, that is called code.
And we're gonna use this as
our kind of code highlighting,
syntax highlighting element.
So, let's set it up to use theme-ui,
so import jsx from theme-ui, and
then we're going to import
preToCodeBlock From mdx-utils.
And this will allow us to get some
props out of the pre element and
switch some things up under the hood, so
that it's compatible with
the prism react renderer.
Then we're going to import the highlight
component and some default props.
>> Jason Lengstorf: From
prism-react-renderer.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And finally,
I'm gonna import a theme from
prism-react-renderer/themes and
the one that I want is nightOwl
which is Sarah Drasner's theme.
It's also the one that we're
using in the editor today.
It's my favorite.
So now that we've got this we have
the ability to start showing the stuff, so
let's create a component called code.
And that's gonna receive some props and
inside we can do,
our code props are going to,
this is where we use that
preToCodeBlock on our props.
And so what this is doing is it's giving
us like what language is the the pre
block using.
Do we have the the code string separated
from the rest of the the markup
of the pre block.
And that just makes our
lives a little bit easier.
So the first thing we're gonna do
is if we didn't get any code props,
then it's not a highlightable code block.
Because there is a chance that somebody's
just using it to show block text, or
that it's a quote, and
not necessarily code.
And if that's the case,
we're just gonna return a pre tag.
And send in the original props.
So that's our bailout.
If we don't get any code props back,
we just send back at default pre tech.
If we do have code props,
we're gonna pull some of those out.
So we want the code string and
the language specifically.
And we get those out of the code props.
Then, we are gonna return some stuff.
And now, this is a little bit
of an early looking component.
So just fair warning,
this is gonna get a little hairy, but
it's very cool when it works.
So we start out by using this highlight.
And inside of it we are going
to spread out the default props.
So that if all else fails,
it will have some defaults and
at least not look completely broken.
Then we're gonna set
the code to the codestring.
We're gonna set the language
to the language.
And we'll set the theme to the theme.
This one uses the render props pattern,
which means that we get a function back.
And inside of that
function we can do things.
The, the props that will get in
this render prop, is the classname,
style, tokens,
getLineProps which is a helper function,
and getTokenProps with
is also helper function.
And we are just getting started.
So then we are gonna put out a pre.
And this one has a class
name of className.
And then it's going to use
a style of style,singular and
then we want to add a little bit of helper
to make sure that it looks similar to it.
We just want it to look nice in our theme.
And so we're gonna have
a little bit of patting and
then if the code block is long,
we want to scroll, not over flow and
finally I'm gonna put a hook
in here using a variant.
Now we haven't looked at variants yet.
We'll get into those in a little more
detail a little bit later on but
what these are is effectively a named
way for someone to override styles in
the theme-ui config which we're adding
this as kind of a convenience thing.
If somebody uses this theme and wants
to override the prism highlight styles.
They can do it by declaring a prism
highlight prop in their theme UI config,
instead of having to
inject this component and
deal with all of this kind of
clutter that we're creating here.
So, once we're inside our pre,
then we're going to map over our tokens.
And the first one is going to give us
the line and then it's index, right?
And inside of this we're going to
spread out the results of getline props
because we need to get those and
it's an object.
So we pass in line, and
then the key is gonna be the index and
that just gives us a unique key for it.
Then, inside of that, we're going to
map over the line itself and
that's going to give us a token and a key.
And finally we get a span.
And this span is going
to get the tokenProps.
And the values there are the token and
the key.
Okay, has anybody's brain
melted out of their ears yet?
This is a, like big hairy component.
So, we're doing several things.
We start by just wrapping it in
the general highlight component,
that's a prism react
renderers kind of hey,
let's set all the defaults that we
need for the highlighter to work.
Then, We get all these defaults
in here and create a pre tag.
And then the way that a highlighter
works is it breaks the string apart.
So it's not just, your code block,
and then you get a bunch
of string with code in it.
It takes that code and
it breaks it up into all these tokens.
So there's keywords, there's lines,
there's all sorts of stuff like that.
We start by taking the tokens and
breaking them into lines.
Each line is its own div.
That gives us the ability to do
things like number the lines, or
do zebra striping to make it easier
to track, or highlighting lines.
Then, inside of the line,
we have to get the token.
If we look at the way that
highlighting is working here,
we can see that the bracket is one color.
The variable is another color,
the function is yet another color.
So each of these things is actually
broken up into a token that we are then
wrapping in a span,
which allows prism to highlight it.
So to make this work
there are two more steps.
The first thing is we're going to
in the Gatsby plug in theme UI,
we can specify what
components get used for
a given MDX HTML value.
So we can over ride what
it gets as a pre tag which
we would create by using fence blocks or
just writing an HTML pre tag.
We can tell it whenever you get one of
these use something else in its place.
So we do that by creating
a components.js components.
Make sure it's yes it is
plural components.js.
And we're doing that inside of
the Gatsby plugin theme UI.
So source.
Gatsby plugin theme UI components.
And then inside of that,
we can import our code
component from components code.
And then we just export an object, and
we tell MDX that anytime it encounters
a pre tag to use that code component.
So, with that being done,
now we can take some code.
So let me just copy this out, and we can
go into one of our pages and I'm going to.
Add some code,
put it inside of a fenced block
with the js language tag.
And upon saving this and
starting the server,
>> Jason Lengstorf: We should
be able to see some highlighted code
>> Jason Lengstorf: Did I
forget to export the code?
I did, so
we're going to export default code
from the code component and
that should solve our problem.
There we go.
So now we're getting any
code that we drop in
gets langauge specific
highlighting attached to it.
And if we add something else, like if I
go into this index.js, wherever it was.
And I add, let's say some,
>> Jason Lengstorf: It's
not gonna try to highlight that,
so it'll just leave it alone.
Okay so now we can save our work.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So we added some
new packages, created that code,
component added that code component
as a override for the pre tag
in gatsby-plugin-theme UI added some
fence code blocks to our index mdx.